{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2509
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # Kaggle Competition: Predicting House Prices\
\
## Soorya Paturi (sopaturi@gmail.com)\
\
### Abstract\
\
A house has many characteristics that describe it from the type of material that is used on the exterior of the house to the number of rooms in the house. Typically, only a few key characteristics are used to describe a house instead of all of the descriptors when describing a house. A common descriptor of a house is home price because it takes into account the value of many other characteristics. The goal of this project is to predict home prices in Ames, Iowa. Currently, there is not a published deterministic relationship between home price and the characteristics of a home.  However, the objective is to find a relationship between house characteristics and home price so that home price can be predicted.\
\
### INTRODUCTION TO FINAL REPORT ABOVE\
Predicting home price is important to the buyer, seller, as well as an assessor of the home. Once home price can be predicted, recommendations can be made to the home seller on what modifications to the home will lead to the greatest increase in price. An assessor that is determining the value of the home can use the results of this prediction model to verify that their valuation is accurate. Finally, a home buyer would find it useful to predict home price so that they can verify they are buying the home for a fair value compared to the other homes in Ames, Iowa.  The best performing model can be used to predict home prices in any suburb given similar input features.\
\
Home price prediction is not deterministic because a house can have many different characteristics.  In addition, a seller and a buyer can agree on a sale price that is not characteristic of similar homes. However, the objective is to find a relationship between home price and characteristics of the house, so that the value of home price can be predicted.\
\
The client interested in the results of this report is any home buyer, seller, or assessor. The client should care about home price prediction for these houses because unknown house prices given house characteristics can be identified. With a home price predictor, a home buyer or seller can verify that the price listed by the assessor is accurate and change the house so that the price increases. \
\
The outline of this report and the final report is summarized here with Section II introducing the data set. In Section III, the data wrangling of the data set is summarized by explaining how the data set was obtained, cleaned, and wrangled. In Section IV, exploratory data analysis of the data is summarized by a field by field analysis of home attributes that affect home price. In Section V, the prediction task is described. In addition, the last section, Section VI, conclusions and next steps are discussed.}